# Personalized sound profiling using machine learning

## Analytic text

---

### Labelling of sounds

#### Problem

Manually labelling sounds is tedious work. Everyone also have their own perception of sound, so giving generic tags to sounds hinders personal labelling and categorization. This is the current state of most Sound FX libraries, including <https://freesound.org/> used in this project.

#### Solution 1 – K-clustering + semi-supervised learning algorithm

To initially generate some categories, k-clustering will be used with a large training set from <https://freesound.org/>. A suitable semi-supervised learning algorithm will use the result to generate a category or group for new sounds and improve the categorization of existing sounds.

#### Solution 2 – Semi-supervised learning algorithm only

No initial categories would be generated. Rather, the semi-supervised algorithm would start by having the user categorize some sounds as the training set, and then the rest of the sounds would be categorized accordingly.

#### Questions and limitations

- Solution 1
  - Why do we need the initial categories generated by the k-clustering method?
  - This approach will label sounds in the training set with a single label, i.e. no sound can belong to more than one category.
  - Every user would start with initial categories, which would probably lead to more biased categorization.
- Solution 2
  - How would the user know where to start and what labels to use?
  - How long would it take and how many samples is needed to make a somewhat decent model?

#### Considerations

- The problem fits under multi-label classifications, as one sounds can belong to multiple categories.
- The amount of categories may vary; one user might choose to categorize the same sounds into to two categories, as another user who might have put them into ten different categories.
- <https://freesound.org/> provide about 300 000 sounds with _ac_analysis_ features that can be used for the training set.
